For Editorial review (#1226)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: x12-edi/2.5/modules/ROOT/pages/x12-edi-connector-hipaa.adoc

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Premium]

> Anypoint Connector for X12 EDI Connector 2.5 - HIPAA provides support for the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) standards based on X12 EDI Connector standards and version `005010`.

Reviewer: version 005010 of what?

> Refer to this information for using X12 EDI Connector for HIPAA transaction sets, and for how usage differs from the standard X12.

Reviewer: Refer to which information?
Also, correct sentence structure/parallelism: "Refer to...for using...and for how usage differs"

> For complete information on X12 standards, refer to xref:index.adoc[X12 EDI Connector 2.5] and xref:x12-edi-schema-language-reference.adoc[EDI Schema Language Reference].

Reviewer: "information about"

X12 EDI Connector - HIPAA support includes:

* X12 HIPAA EDI message reading, message validation, and message writing

* Integration with DataSense and DataWeave

> * The ability to customize the base X12 HIPAA schemas

Reviewer: no spaces

* The data structure representation

The supplied HIPAA schemas use different structures from the base X12 schemas.

> The structure used for HIPAA reflects the way that the same segments are used in different locations in a transaction set for different purposes, and often with different requirements for code sets and field usages. To help distinguish between the different usages, the HIPAA schemas use full names as segment keys. This differs from the approach used with basic X12 standards, where the segment keys normally use a numeric prefix along with the segment tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The structure used for HIPAA reflects the way that the same segments are used in different locations in a transaction set for different purposes, often with different requirements for code sets and field usages. To help distinguish between the different uses, the HIPAA schemas use full names as segment keys. This differs from the approach used with basic X12 standards, in which the segment keys normally use a numeric prefix along with the segment tag.
```

HIPAA schemas also include details of code sets defined for elements. Data is validated against these code sets both when parsing and writing transaction sets.

== Configuring for HIPAA Usage

> To use X12 EDI Connector connector for HIPAA transaction sets you must:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use X12 EDI Connector for HIPAA transaction sets, you must:
```

* Select one or more HIPAA schemas to be used.

> 

Reviewer: Lines hidden

== About HIPAA Schema Definitions

X12 EDI Connector uses a YAML format called EDI Schema Language (ESL) to represent both standard X12 and HIPAA schemas.

> The HIPAA standards are based on X12, but modify the corresponding X12 base standards in several aspects including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HIPAA standards are based on X12 but modify the corresponding X12 base standards in several aspects, including:
```

> * Multiple specialized definitions of Hierarchical Level (HL) loops. This is where a basic loop structure defined in the X12 structure is expanded into several variations. These loops are often nested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Multiple specialized definitions of Hierarchical Level (HL) loops
+
This is where a basic loop structure defined in the X12 structure is expanded into several variations. These loops are often nested.
```
"This is where..."?

* Modular loop definitions that can be reused at different points in the definition.

* Distinguishing between different uses of a repeated segment by code values in a particular element.

> * Changing usage requirements for segments and segment components.

Reviewer: No periods, based on reformatting the first list item to our standard bullet-list style.

These features of the HIPAA ESL schema definitions are very different from standard X12 schemas.

> This partial example illustrates the differences. It is from the schema for the `005010X222A2` `837` transaction set:

Reviewer: hidden lines

  - { id: '640', name: 'Claim or Encounter Identifier', usage: M, codeSet: { 'RP': 'Reporting', 'CH': 'Chargeable', '31': 'Subrogation Demand' }, type: ID, length: 2 }
----

> The first, second, and last elements in this segment define `codeSet` values, in the form of an array of key-value pairs. The key in each pair is a particular value for the field that is allowed by the HIPAA standard, while the value for the key is the text description of that value (from the standard).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first, second, and last elements in this segment define `codeSet` values in the form of an array of key-value pairs. The key in each pair is a particular value for the field that is allowed by the HIPAA standard, while the value in the pair is the text description of that value (from the standard).
```

> X12 EDI Connector enforces these code sets for HIPAA documents, signaling an error if a transaction set uses an undefined value for a field (that is, a value not listed as a key in the `codeSet`) either when parsing or writing. In some cases, such as the first element of the `BHT` definition, only a single value is allowed. In other cases there can be many potential values.

Reviewer: ditto re. rewording to avoid "that is,"

== About Segment Variants

> 

Reviewer: hidden lines

> These two definitions apply to different instances of the `DTP` segment, as part of the 2300 Claim Information loop. In the transaction set structure these uses of the `DTP` segment occur essentially in the same position, matching two possible occurrences of a repeating DTP segment in the base X12 standard. Because the two uses of the segment are supplying different information, the HIPAA standard gives them different names and interprets the `DTP03` field in different ways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These two definitions apply to different instances of the `DTP` segment, as part of the 2300 Claim Information loop. In the transaction set structure, these uses of the `DTP` segment occur essentially in the same position, matching two possible occurrences of a repeating DTP segment in the base X12 standard. Because the two uses of the segment supply different information, the HIPAA standard gives them different names and interprets the `DTP03` field in different ways.
```

> In this case the data value in the first field of the segment, the `Date Time Qualifier` field, identifies which variation of the segment is actually being used. Since the code set for this field has different values for each of these uses the value present in the field tells whether the DTP segment in a parsed document is a `DTP_DateAccident` or a `DTP_DateAcuteManifestation` (or any of several other uses of the DTP segment in the same position). The `varValue: true` flag in the schema definition indicates that this first field is used in this manner to distinguish between variations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the data value in the first field of the segment, the `Date Time Qualifier` field, identifies which variation of the segment is actually being used. Since the code set for this field has different values for each of these uses, the value present in the field tells whether the DTP segment in a parsed document is a `DTP_DateAccident` or a `DTP_DateAcuteManifestation` (or any of several other uses of the DTP segment in the same position). The `varValue: true` flag in the schema definition indicates that this first field is used in this manner to distinguish between variations.
```

> Even though the value of this field is effectively fixed for each use of the segment, it must set correctly when writing data. If you supply a different value for this field, or don't supply a value, you'll see an error when writing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even though the value of this field is effectively fixed for each use of the segment, you must specified it correctly when writing data. If you supply an incorrect value for this field, or don't supply a value at all, you receive an error.
```

== About Syntax Rules

> 

Reviewer: hidden lines

> definition is not supported for HIPAA. Instead, for modifications, extract the supplied HIPAA schema from inside the `x12-schemas-2.0.0.jar`. This is found in the standard MuleSoft enterprise Maven repositories under group ID com.mulesoft.connectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
definition is not supported for HIPAA. Instead, for modifications, extract the supplied HIPAA schema from inside the `x12-schemas-2.0.0.jar` file. This is found in the standard MuleSoft enterprise Maven repositories, under group ID com.mulesoft.connectors.
```

> You can copy a message structure schema from this JAR (it contains both standard X12 and HIPAA schemas) and modify the extracted schema to use it directly. Unlike X12 schemas that use a base set of segment, composite, and element definitions, the HIPAA schemas are self-contained. This makes it easy to make changes to the schema without needing to work with multiple files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can copy a message structure schema from this JAR file (it contains both standard X12 and HIPAA schemas) and modify the extracted schema to use it directly. Unlike X12 schemas that use a base set of segment, composite, and element definitions, the HIPAA schemas are self-contained. This makes it easy to make changes to the schema without working with multiple files.
```

== About Recommended Types of Validations from WEDI

> 

Reviewer: GLOBALLY work to revise all the "About" titles....

Reviewer: Introduce the two list items.

Reviewer: Reformat these items to follow our bullet list style, as mentioned in earlier edit comments.

> * Type 1: EDI syntax integrity testing – Testing of the EDI file for valid segments, segment order, element attributes, testing for numeric values in numeric data elements, validation of X12 or NCPDP syntax, and compliance with X12 and NCPDP rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Type 1: EDI syntax integrity testing
+
Tests the EDI file for valid segments, segment order, element attributes, numeric values in numeric data elements, validation of X12 or NCPDP syntax, and compliance with X12 and NCPDP rules.
```

This validates the basic syntactical integrity of the EDI submission.

> * Type 2: HIPAA syntactical requirement testing – Testing for HIPAA Implementation Guide-specific syntax requirements, such as limits on repeat counts, used and not used qualifiers, codes, elements, and segments. Also included in this type is testing for HIPAA required or intra-segment situational data elements, testing for non-medical code sets as laid out in the WEDI SNIP implementation guide, and values and codes noted in the WEDI SNIP implementation guide using an X12 code list or table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Type 2: HIPAA syntactical requirement testing
+
Tests for HIPAA Implementation Guide-specific syntax requirements, such as limits on repeat counts, used and not used qualifiers, codes, elements, and segments. Also included is testing for HIPAA-required or intrasegment situational data elements, testing for nonmedical code sets as laid out in the WEDI SNIP implementation guide, and testing values and codes noted in the WEDI SNIP implementation guide using an X12 code list or table.
```

> As the connector cannot determine a course of action for intra-segment situational data elements, intra-segment situational data elements aren't covered by X12 EDI Connector. Users need to set a validation logic outside of the connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the connector cannot determine a course of action for intrasegment situational data elements, intrasegment situational data elements are not part of X12 EDI Connector and must be set in validation logic outside of the connector.
```
